[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios, podcasts,
radio, news.
>> Oh, Joe, this is cutting. This is from
Neil Dada, friend of the pod.
>> Oh, yeah. All right. Read it out. Read
it out.
>> President Trump has picked everyone's
least favorite candidate, Kevin Walsh,
[snorts] for the next Fed Reserve chief.
I tip my hat to Walsh, who has managed
to get selected after being passed over
time and again. That's a remarkable
achievement for him.
>> [music]
>> Joe, I want a t-shirt that says ruthless
utility maximizer.
>> Black gold.
>> Let's talk about losers.
>> Who cares?
>> I've decided I'm going to base my entire
personality going forward on campaigning
for a strategic pork reserve in the US.
>> Skulls Unlimited.
>> Ooh, what's the ticker for that?
>> No, I think that like in a couple years
the AI will do a really good job of
making the Odd Outlaws podcast.
>> How do I get more popular and
successful? One day that person will
have the mandate of heaven. We do have
>> the perfect guest.
>> You're listening [music] to Lots More
where we catch up with friends about
what's going on right now
>> because even when Odd Lots is over,
there's always lots more
>> and we really do have the [music]
perfect guest.
I'm just going to say what I find
interesting right now is that you know
like Trump announces someone and you
expect a bunch of like liberal ninnies
in the media to like shake their fists.
It's like oh this isn't good. You know
it's like there's a lot of predictable
response. But it is interesting to my
mind to hear someone like Neil who is uh
I do not associate him with liberal
media group think or anything like that
as well as many others uh who are like
huh interesting pick here. Well, I will
say opinions kind of divided. So,
Mohamad Alaran tweeted earlier that he
thinks Kevin's gonna be a great Fed
chair and he's observed and this is a
quote, "Having observed and interacted
with Kevin during his prior tenure as
Fed governor in academia and as a fellow
member of the group of 30, I believe he
brings a strong mix of deep expertise,
broad experience, and sharp
communication skills." So,
>> by the way, Jason Ferman, too. He
tweeted, "Kevin Wars is well above the
bar on both substance and independence
to be chair of the Federal Reserve. The
Senate should ask tough questions about
his independent and President Trump
should reduce the threat to it."
Hopefully, that will make it clear Worsh
should be confirmed. So, it is a mix on
both sides. It is not dividing in
obvious easy ways. Anyway, Scond, what's
up?
>> Glad to be part of this momentous day.
It is a moment. I guess we see that.
Yeah, Kevin Worsh is uh right now the
successor in waiting if uh he gets
confirmed by the Senate. It is funny how
he's part of this group of 30 which is a
form of former central bankers, former
finance ministers and movers and
shakers. So you see Muhammad Alien,
Jason Ferman, George Osborne, I believe
Mark Carney, certainly not exactly the
most um America first kind of uh
grouping, maybe more globalist in
flavor, has definitely kind of rallied
around uh Kevin Worsh because I think
they've probably conversed with him a
bunch of times and take him to be a very
serious person. I myself am much more
sympathetic to what uh our friend Neil
has pointed out. By the way, we are
talking of course to longtime friend of
the pod Scanda Emmerath, co-founder and
executive of Employee America. So when
you see like Okay, so someone like Neil
and and someone like yourself and you
have these reservations like what is the
origin of some of these uh anxieties?
>> I think there are a few different
anxieties and I think let's start with
this is obviously someone who served on
the Fed before, right? He was a Fed
governor. So we have like a track
record. We don't have to like rely on
secondhand validation. And we don't have
to is if if we didn't know anything
about Kevin Worst, I think probably it's
probably worth putting a little more
emphasis on what Jason Ferman and
Mohammed and those people are saying and
they seem like respectable people except
he was Fed Governor and he does have a
pretty long body of work uh in terms of
a public intellectual giving remarks
being in the Wall Street Journal opinion
pages. And the trouble is it kind of
comes back to like who do you want in a
crisis, right? So the Fed really tends
to matter the most in periods of crisis.
He was a Fed governor in the crisis and
he he often touts it as some as we're
>> talking about the great financial
qualified purpose.
>> Yes. The the 2008 financial crisis.
>> If you go through what his views were
through that whole period,
>> what you will find is this is someone
who was very eager to tout
the financial system was performing even
as it was descending into crisis in 2007
and 8. He was very eager to really
upweight the importance of inflation in
the summer and fall of 2008 until Lehman
failed. So this is someone clearly who
had his eye on I'd say the wrong ball at
that time. Okay, mistakes happen like
people had different views. I don't
think we should be like too precious
about that specifically. And yet also
the moment that sort of we came into
2009 and let's say the absolute worst of
the financial distress may have been
behind us but we had historically high
and rising unemployment. He basically
said this was not really a big problem,
not something the Fed should be focused
on and that we actually should start to
shift back towards focusing on keeping
uh interest rates more normal, not so
low. I'm worried about inflation. And so
he came up with a lot of reasons why he
thought inflation was going to explode,
why QE was really bad, and that that
would ultimately lead to first
inflation, then maybe some version of
asset price inflation, maybe bubbles,
maybe it's backdoor fiscal policy. He
came with a lot of different reasons at
different times for why he really hated
the fact that the Fed's balance sheet
was so big. But one, those predictions
weren't really true. I think they
reflect a misunderstanding of what the
Fed's balance sheet really does and is.
And it's still like a big um it's a is a
favorite hobby horse of his.
>> But that itself is like he kind of
missed the whole financial crisis in a
way, right? Like aside from like the
absolute worst of it, everyone got on
the same page in October 2008. But
that's like kind of like not like that's
not a great badge of like um of of honor
that you actually figured out that you
had to sort of support the financial
system at that time. I think that's the
first dimension that probably is of
concern. But let's say like okay people
h have gone through various episodes and
missed a lot of things and you'd hope
coming out of that people kind of have
learned something expressed some
humility okay I missed this part of this
problem the scale of it the duration of
it and I'll do better next time. We
haven't really heard that. But okay,
let's leave those like missing mialas
aside. The two things that are more
concerning that come out of that though
is we see now a growing pattern of both
obsequiousness and partisanship in how
he orients his macro and monetary policy
views. So let's let's fast forward to
2024, right? where we had for a while
obviously there was a sense of like the
Fed's going to cut rates but are they
going to cut rates soon enough or are
they going to wait longer because they
want to see more progress on inflation.
Kevin Worsh for most of that year he was
pretty clearly in the camp of the Fed is
risking not keeping interest rates high
enough for long enough to kill
inflation. But when do you think that
his policy views changed? they happen to
change in November 2024 basically and he
basically did a big 180 on what were
probably considered pretty hawkish views
but actually they turned doubbish the
moment the election changes now
obviously like everyone does a version
of inflcting their policy views with
some level of politics and partisanship
whether they can help it or not here to
say it's like any anyone's immune but
there's a tendency if you look through
his track record of basically worrying
about inflation and worrying about sort
of fiscal excesses is during periods
when it's a Democrat that that's in the
White House and then it tends to flip
towards deregulation and productivity
growth that are going to be
disinflationary
and that's that's why we can afford to
keep rates lower when it's a Republican
that's in the White House. I think
that's been dialed up even further in
this this this last call it 18 to 24
months [snorts] where you've seen that
sort of 180 take place.
>> Yeah. And I think that kind of speaks to
exactly what did he have to promise to
President Trump to get the job.
>> It's funny you mentioned uh writing
op-eds in the Wall Street Journal. And
this is also a da line. He says and all
he's done in the years since his time at
the Fed is critique QE and the Fed
itself, making a bunch of bad economic
calls along the way and writing the same
op-ed in the Wall Street Journal every
year. So, one thing I was reading, you
know, I read some of those op-eds, but I
also read a speech that Worsh made last
year, and he was criticizing the Fed for
being too dependent on data or focusing
on data dependency, too much near-term
forecasting. And it kind of, you know,
it made me think like, well, if you're
not looking at the data, what are you
going to be looking at? Do we have any
sense of what he actually prioritizes
when it comes to making policy?
>> Yeah, I mean maybe it's vibes, maybe
it's presidential preferences, but
obviously like sort of halfkitting
there, but I think it's like what do we
have if we don't have data, right? What
do we have if we don't have a language
that you can talk about facts like
obviously data has flaws? We all know
that there's like limitations to what
macroeconomic data releases can tell us,
what various points of information tell
us. We're all trying to triangulate
around this like fuzzy reality of
macroeconomics. But it's a useful
language for being able to like get
people from different policy
preferences, different political
orientations to get on something of the
same page, right? It's a way of saying,
okay, this is a fact about the data. We
can tell say this is the reason why it's
too high, it's too low, it's biased this
way. You can have a discussion about it,
but at least it's a way to make sure
we're talking about something other than
politics, something other than policy
that's like outside of the ambit of the
Fed. I think what you actually hear from
Kevin War on the data dependent side is
pretty worrisome because it kind of
speaks to a a disinterest in in being
perceived as objective. A lack of
interest in actually doing something
that can broaden legitimacy around the
Fed so that people will understand okay
the Fed made this decision because
indicators moved in this direction or
they think indicators are moving this
direction. At the same time, you
obviously have a situation where like
there's a lot of risk of eroding trust
in the Fed when Trump has been saying
that he wants his guy in who's going to
do [laughter] what he wants and that he
really felt burned by picking Jerome
Powell. So basically that Jerome Powell
was not pliant enough to what Trump was
looking for. I think that that just
raises a lot of risks going forward. And
I just to bring it back to the issue of
crisis, the Fed has been such an
important actor in periods of crisis and
divided government, right? When we think
about 2008 and 2020 when periods when
the White House was controlled by a
Republican and there was a pretty
viciferous opposition from Congress in
terms of obviously there was a
Democratic House in 2020 and both
chambers were a Democratic in 2008. How
did you get to like policies that
actually started to take out like
address the scale of the crisis in front
of them? You got there because there was
some agreement and trust that the Fed
could be a reliable kind of crisis
broker of sorts. I think that's going to
be a lot harder this time around because
Kevin Morris's like track record
obviously there's a certain
obsequiousness that kind of has been
very obvious from how he's done these
policy 180s. He goes from hawk at one
point and then the moment Trump wins
office he starts to shift towards being
more doubbish. He did a version of this
in 2017 though less exaggerated. So
that's something that like is
concerning. Layer it on to his tenure as
Fed governor has this like features a
lot of speeches in which he's like
really going off script in terms of what
he's talking about. He doesn't just talk
about monetary policy or just financial
regulation. He started to give kind of
these like bigger concerns about hey I
don't really like the way the trade
policy is going under the Obama
administration. I don't really like how
like we risk going down the wrong path
on broader regulatory policy things that
really shouldn't have been under his
domain itself to focus on and yet he
kind of veered into the political and
probably was speaking to a more partisan
audience at that time. I think
everything you've seen since 20056 kind
of speaks to someone who wants to talk
to one side of the partisan aisle, but
it may be very different in a crisis
when you need relationships across the
spectrum.
[music]
You know, regardless of what people
thought about Bernanki or Paul, etc.,
both of them, you know, were reasonably
well respected across both sides of the
aisle, which probably was very helpful
during the crisis. I have a question.
I've never actually quite known the
answer to this, but even going back to
2009, 2010, etc. Like a lot of people
really liked Worsh, and you mentioned
that he's in a select community of like
some pretty like heavy hitters, etc. And
I think uh Bernani liked Worsh quite a
bit if I recall. what is the sort of
like war origin story of like how he got
to be in the circles of some of the most
elite you know monetary policy minds.
>> So he was one of the youngest people
selected to be uh a Fed governor and
there was a lot of consternation even
about whether he was qualified at that
time. There's some some good background
about how there were a lot of critics,
former Fed Vice chairman, people who
served under Ronald Reagan expressing
reservation. It's about picking someone
so young who was had no real track
record. He was like an investment bank
at Morgan Stanley and technology media
telecom for a brief period. He's kind of
known in these circles primaril like I
don't I don't know how much to ascribe
to this. I'm not, but I do think like it
matters that probably his father-in-law
is one of the big donors to the
Republican party and has been a big
donor to Trump. So Ron Laauair of Estee
Lauder fame. So there's like certain
levels of connections that have
mattered. I think there's pretty well
doumented fight between Randy Quarl who
was the head of supervision appointed by
Trump in his first term and uh Kevin
Worsh were fighting over a particular
job in the Bush Treasury Secretary
office, the Treasury Department. So he's
been around Yeah. in those circles. I
think he's mostly been conversed with
let's call people who are like he was a
visiting fellow at the Hoover
Institution which is like an
intellectual hub for obviously
conservative economic thought but he's
also mostly been speaking to a specific
crowd like the Wall Street Journal oped
page has mostly been with those who are
of his persuasion. He has managed to do
a remarkable job of shapeshifting
towards making sure he's heard well by
President Trump. And so he has managed
to kind of make that transition in a way
that maybe other people have not. But
that shape-shifting itself has always
been with an orientation towards I'm
really speaking to a Republican
audience. And I what I wonder about that
is if we run into any sort of situation
where you're going to need the Fed to
kind of put out a fire or you're going
to need some institution to do that play
that role as it was the case in the
car's act or was the case around TARP or
around uh any of the other sort of
bailouts of 2008. How do you like muster
that together when like this person has
kind of been pretty consistently
partisan and ideological in some ways?
Ideological maybe more so when it's not
Trump at the helm, but it's just
something that's becomes very hard to
trust. And we kind of take that for
granted in terms of like macro and
finance about how the Fed is supposed to
step in when there's a crisis, but like
the Fed steps in in the crisis when they
get the backing from both Congress and
the White House
>> that may not exist. Just going back to
things that Warsh has said previously.
So we talked about he's been very
critical of the Fed's balance sheet,
expanded balance sheet and QE and things
like that. Assuming that he figures out
a way to do what he wants at the Fed and
somehow gets support of the Fed board or
does something else, how dramatic could
his tenure at the Fed actually be in
terms of monetary policy? cuz I'm
thinking, you know, there's been some
chat or some suggestion that Worsh would
like to radically redesign the way
monetary policy interest rates are
actually implemented.
>> Yeah, that's always been a bit fuzzy to
me because he's been very eager to
criticize, but the nature of the
criticism has always had to like
continuously adapt
>> to what I'd call somewhat failed
predictions. First, it was that there
were a lot of people who said QE is
going to increase the money supply and
mechanically increase inflation. And
that was the case that people said this
in like 2009 10 didn't quite pan out
that way. Then people kind of said like
this going to lead to asset price
inflation/bubbles
like maybe there was asset price
inflation but there wasn't really like
an obvious bubble that transpired from
it. And then it sort of that some of the
criticisms shifted towards well it's
actually doing something on fiscal
policy. So I think you have to have a
career in view of what you actually
think the Fed balance sheet does. Like
if you ask me ordinary vanilla Treasury
QE is not really doing much. It's mostly
an asset swap of two risk-free assets
which is a view actually that another
person at Hoover institution John
Cochran would probably abide by. So
there's not really any distorting
effects that people are really the way
people are saying and yet he sort of has
made this a big bug bear that this is
like the big thing that needs to shift.
It comes at a very awkward time because
what's been happening is that money
markets have been basically giving the
signal that actually the balance sheet
is getting to a place where if you try
to run it down from here and run it down
too abruptly, you might get more
dysfunction kind of similar to what we
saw in like September 2019. So we might
get into a situation where repo rates
spike because there's just not a lot of
relative to the the banking system and
the financial systems needs. you do need
to have some amount of liquidity
available and that amount of liquidity
is meaningfully more than it was prior
to the financial crisis. That's probably
like one part regulation, one part
supervision, and one part bank risk
management practices. But this stuff is
kind of like actually hard to pin down
how much of each. And so he's he's made
this his like big concern. I suspect
he's probably going to have to swallow
his pride a bit and be more supportive
of like gradual balance sheet expansion
during this period because money market
conditions are basically signaling that
things have tightened up quite a bit in
terms of if you look at where the Fed
funds rate or money market interest
rates are relative to the interest that
the Fed pays on reserves or the interest
rate that the Fed um pays for money
market funds to the reverse repo
facility. Those have been converging,
right? those are basically been those
those money market interest rates have
been kept going up relative to those
rates set by the Fed and that kind of is
also a sign that like yeah you're going
to have to have more malleability and
it's not exactly the case that like oh
my god this Fed balance sheet is like
this big problem or that it's it's
something that if you if you lower the
balance sheet that's how you get lower
interest [clears throat] rates. Um these
views are all kind of incoherent but I
think that especially now that he might
be in a position where he has to deal
with those hard realities I suspect his
views may be forced to change. It'll be
interesting to see what happens. Let's
just talk, you know, so we know Trump
wants lower rates. Kevin Wars just
talked about we need lower rates. So
there's alignment there. Other
candidates who were like the sort of
finalists also talking about that. So
Christopher Waller who I think you know
many people would say perhaps has the
best track record of the last 5 years of
anyone having correctly identified the
inflationary turn and then also
recognizing when the inflationary turn
was coming to an end. He also wants
lower rates. So like there presumably no
matter who was going to come in was
going to have this lower rates now view.
That being said, you know, does the
actual execution of lower rates in the
short term setting aside crisis, does it
change at all the dynamics when he's
just one of multiple voting members if
that message is coming from Kevin Walsh
versus if it were coming from a
Christopher Waller? I think it
definitely matters because at least with
Chris Waller, honestly with all of the
front runners outside of Borch, I can
point to a tangible example where that
person supported the case for lower
interest rates outside of a very
Trumpinflected
electoral context. And I'm including
even Kevin Hasset here. So Rick Reer,
Chris Waller are people who have made
the case for rate cuts at various times
even when Trump was not in office. even
when Trump wasn't clamoring for lower
interest rates. In the case of Kevin
Hasset, he went on the record in October
2024, I believe, basically defending the
Fed's 50 basis point rate cut in
September, back when Kevin Worsh and
Scott Bessant and Steve Steve Myin were
up in arms about the idea that the Fed
could cut rates and thought it was the
most like politically motivated decision
ever. So you get like people who have
actually pre-registered their views and
are not can show an ability to make
judgments outside of that sort of
presidential context will come with more
credibility because in the end as as you
rightly point out the FOMC which is made
up of seven Fed governors and a set of
regional Fed presidents. They are not
just presidential appointees certainly
not of this current president and even
those who were appointed by the
president in the previous
administration. I think to a large
extent I'm talking about Michelle Bowman
or Chris Waller or Jay Powell have shown
like a capacity for independent
judgment and assessment. Will someone
like Kevin Wars be able to bring more
people on board is going to be a real
challenge, right? Can he be persuasive?
Can he be persuasive? And especially if
he's someone who doesn't really take a
lot of stock in data. Like one of the
nice ways that you can be persuasive is
being able to point to an indicator and
saying, "I think this is going to happen
in this way." And if it does happen this
way, you get more credibility in the
next meeting to say, I've things are
going the way I suspected and therefore
we really need to make take policy in
the direction I think is right. Like
that's kind of the data has a way of
like helping keep people accountable in
discussions. Not always, but like it's
it's better than nothing at all or
better than the the substitute. And so I
think regardless of who was going to be
the Fed chair, there was going to be a
persuasive constraint. We're kind of
seeing from the Supreme Court that Trump
can't just fire everyone on the Fed that
he wants. At least that's those are the
tea leaves we're getting. And so you're
gonna have to work with the people who
are already on the Fed on the FOMC. And
if that's the case, like persuasive
power matters. And like what's the
reason you're really like expressing
this view? Are you expressing this view
because you believe it or because you
think it satisfies what the president
wants? Unfortunately, over the course of
the last, I'd say two decades, Kevin
Worsh's views kind of have like a strong
like political correlation to them.
Look, everyone's got some political
correlation in their views, I suspect,
but uh his more predominantly, and
especially if he wasn't making arguments
rooted primarily in data, I think he may
find it harder to persuade his fellow
colleagues and there will be a high
level suspicion about just how what
exactly are the true intentions behind
his agenda. Just going back to the
speech that Worsh made last year, he
talked about the need for regime change
at the Fed and he said that would
involve quote breaking some heads. So I
imagine the first uh FOMC meeting might
be a little a little awkward.
>> He's got to come in and the first thing
he says is he's like, "Guys, I didn't
mean that literally." [laughter] Like if
he's like try, you know, he's got he's
got to come in and say, "I wrote that,
but I don't want you guys to mean I said
it literally." He's got to say that
>> real quickly. Scanda, if you were at
that meeting, what would be the one
question or the first question that you
asked Mr. Walsh?
>> Oh, I I I think it's it would be good to
get a sense of just like what he's uh
what he even thinks about where interest
rates should be right now because I
think part of what he doesn't quite he
talks a lot about Fed policy in the
abstract, the need for regime change, we
need reform, this need more credibility,
more fewer mandates or something along
those lines. It's all kind of vague and
can kind of sound substantive, but I
kind of think is a little substance free
because it ends up blurring exactly what
he thinks about the macro economy right
now. Like inflation right now is about a
percentage point above the Fed's target.
Now, that might be freezes that are
temporary. That might be freezes that
are more persistent. It'd be good to
understand like what what he thinks will
happen. Why? I we don't really know much
about that beyond just thinking like,
okay, this person's probably going to be
for lowering rates because he got the
job from Trump. The reasoning seems very
light at this point. I think it's uh
there's good reason to be doubish,
there's maybe good reasons to be
hawkish, but can he identify those like
as a someone who would be on the FOMC or
a fed staffer? Like this we're actually
there's more of a black box here because
maybe you could have told yourself a
story of how he was actually a very
hawkish person, especially in 2009 and
2010 and some of his Wall Street Journal
columns afterwards. But especially ever
since we've had Trump in office, like
his views have definitely shifted more
doubbishly and you just want wonder like
how much what what is he putting a high
weight on and if that's something that
can be trusted. Ultimately, he's going
to have to figure out how to build up
more persuasive power and trust among
the committee to actually be an
effective head chair. I think it'll be
remains to be seen. Scander, we're going
to let you go, but uh this is not going
to be the last time we talk about Kevin
Wars with you and many others. So, I
appreciate your time.
>> Thanks. Thanks for having me.
>> Lots more is produced by Dashel Bennett,
Kerman Rodriguez, and Kale Brooks.
>> Please rate, review, and subscribe to
OddLots and lots more on your favorite
podcast platforms.
>> And for even more beyond lots more, go
to bloomberg.com/odlocks
and chat with fellow listeners in our
[music] Discord, discord.gg/odlocks.
And don't forget that Bloomberg
subscribers can listen to all of our
podcasts absolutely adree. All you have
to do [music] is find the Bloomberg
channel on Apple Podcast and follow the
instructions there. Thanks for
listening.